>> Will Sentance: I heard some really
interesting things that people
were talking through there.
We're gonna save that out of
function we're going to call it
we're going to return out the little baby
increment counter function from inside
out into a new global label new function.
And we're gonna call it by
its new global label and
some really interesting
stuff is gonna happen.
Stuff that's going to give
our functions superpowers.
In a special way.
So here we go line one Andrew you're
up what are we doing in line one?
>> Andrew: Declaring a function.
>> Will Sentance: Declaring a function.
Technical communication means
total precision and completeness.
Andrew take it away.
Declaring?
>> Andrew: A function to outer.
>> Will Sentance: Exactly
declaring a function named outer.
There it is, thank you to Andrew for
his patience with me.
Sam, next line, left hand side first.
>> Sam: Declaring a new label.
>> Will Sentance: Yes well done,
new label, new function exactly.
We do not know yet what to store in it,
because we've got to go ahead and
run what Sam?
>> Sam: We need to run outer.
So-
>> Will Sentance: Perfect.
>> Sam: New place.
>> Will Sentance: Outer folk.
Let's have our cool start going here.
There it is global in
the bottom we add outer.
Next.
Bubenesh we're executing out so
we create a new?
>> Bubanesh: Execution complex.
>> Will Sentance: Execution complex
thank you Bubenesh we appreciate it.
That's very on point.
Into what we go.
And we immediately,
no inputs no arguments.
So instead in local memory, Jasmine,
we immediately assign what?
>> Jasmine: Counter to zero.
>> Will Sentance: Counter to zero,
excellent.
Michael next line, I do this thing where
I give the same person the same question
every single time without thinking
about it, Michael next line.
>> Michael: We create a function
called the increment counter.
>> Will Sentance: Increment counter.
Jasmine, did I ask you for zero last time?
I didn't ask you for
increment counter that's so interesting.
What is it?
What is going on in my mind
subconsciously that does that,
that process probably,
what ever that means.
All right, ignore encounter is saved,
we are not going to use it inside though.
Instead, we are going to take its code or
if you remember
from our heap piece we take the label
to its under the hood stored function.
Wait sorry, address if it's under
the hood, stored function and table but
with us for our purposes,
take the code of increment counter.
We're going to see what,
what are we going to do Jasmine?
We're not going to return.
We're not going to run increment counter,
we're going to?
>> Jasmine: Return increment count.
>> Will Sentance: Return
increment counter.
So it's going to say return increment
counter we use that to look up increment
counter it's the code of increment counter
without a label and we take it Jasmine and
we return it out into?
>> Jasmine: New function.
>> Will Sentance: Into new
function she's spot on.
And it we used to be
called increment counter.
It's not called that anymore.
I'm just putting it here so
we know it used to be called that.
And there it is, and
its only code is counter++.
And our execution context here,
everybody, is what?
>> Class: Gone.
>> Will Sentance: Bumped off the call
stack, exactly, removed.
We pop it off,
we pop it off the call stack.
>> Will Sentance: There it is, gone.
And we're out to global where our new
function is now our new global label for
the function that was borne inside
of outer as increment counter.
Let's run it people and
let's see what happens.
New function is called brand, yeah,
everyone together, brand-new?
>> Class: Execution costs.
>> Will Sentance: Thank you,
that energized me,
after my silly lack of enthusiasm.
There it is, it goes on the call stack.
A new function is added on the call stack.
We go into it,
nothing in local memory assigned.
Instead, we hit immediately what line,
Jasmine?
>> Jasmine: The counter plus plus.
>> Will Sentance: Counter plus plus,
cuz new function is a functionality
formerly known as increment counter.
Where, Jasmine,
do I look for counter first?
>> Jasmine: Local context.
>> Will Sentance: Yes, excellent,
thank you, in the local execution context.
Again, same question to you again,
anything there?
>> Jasmine: No.
>> Will Sentance: No.
Now, where would everything,
every intuition we've
thought over the years suggest,
given we first check top of
our call stack new function where
we would look next Jasmine,
every sort of intuition we have
about I run my function here.
I have access to stuff outside of
where it's running where would I say I
can go and look for counter next?
>> Jasmine: Maybe we
think to look in outer.
>> Will Sentance: We might think
look in outer but outer's off the,
that execution context is shut down.
It's off that cool stat, therefore.
[SOUND] We can't take our thread
back in there that's done our
threat of execution went in,
came back out, and it's gone.
And we're now inside of new function.
So we're running a new function in global.
So Jasmine,
where might we look for counter?
>> Jasmine: Global.
>> Will Sentance: In global.
In theory, sounds right to me.
>> Will Sentance: This
line is not very good.
Is countering global, Jasmine?
It's definitely not.
>> Will Sentance: It
kind of gets old [LAUGH].
No, very sad!
>> Class: [LAUGH]
>> Will Sentance: Very sad!
By the way, what a problematic language
design that let's this happen.
This feels like a bad
language design obviously.
Given that this is not the core focus
of this talk, we wanna use this.
For a very powerful feature,
I'm not gonna dwell on this,
but I'm not gonna sort of
let us suffer for too long.
Instead, I'm gonna tell you about
a powerful thing that happens
when I return a function out of
the running of another function.
Give it a global label and
run it by its new global label.
Something very special happens.
I do not just get the code
of the increment counter
function returned out into new function.
I bring with my function
code something else.
On the back of this function comes,
>> Will Sentance: [LAUGH] On the back of
this function comes,
its entire surrounding local memory as
the function gets returned out,
gets returned out into new function.
It brings with it attached on to
it on the back of the function.
And here it is on the back of the function
it's a little backpack as the function
gets pulled out,
it pulls with it on its back.
The surrounding data from when
it was born and look at that.
There is counter is zero attached to, and
we'll talk about whether there's any
more official name than backpack.
I will tell you this after
somebody saw this talk and
wrote a blog post about
it has 50,000 likes,
meaning this term is ever more popular
may into the spec of JavaScript,
never, but maybe there it is
attached on the function,
meaning Jasmine, take a shot after
not finding counter in new functions,
immediate local execution context,
you rightly said the local memory there.
Before I look to global, might there be
somewhere else and you can use the word.
You can say the word it begins with b and
ends back.
Jasmine is there somewhere else that
you think that JavaScript's going to
take its lookup journey to before
it searches global for counter?
>> Jasmine: You might look
in new functions back pack.
>> Will Sentance: You would look
Thank you so much Jasmine.
She is spot on, off we go into new
functions back pack,
here it is, and what do we find there,
Jasmine, we find counter is?
>> Jasmine: Zero.
>> Will Sentance: Counter is zero,
she's spot on,
what do we do to it,
we increment it, Jasmine to?
>> Jasmine: One.
>> Will Sentance: To one.
This execution context gone.
We are not gonna erase it,
we're gonna add it back on because
we're gonna run new function again.
We're gonna talk all about this
backpack in a moment people.
It's super powerful.
>> Will Sentance: Everything in the local
memory there's nothing here but
everything as always is deleted,
it's only temporary.
Run new function again.
Brand new Anna, brand new what?
>> Class: Execution context.
>> Will Sentance: Excellent everybody but
Anna as well.
Excellent Anna into we go when
they turn up the audio for
your mics and it's just Bubenesh
saying execution context.
We find in as next call to new
function counter plus plus,
Eric where do I look for counter first,
by the way, just to be clear,
this is a new new function execution
context on the call stack.
I erased it and put it back on again.
And where do I look first, Eric?
>> Eric: First we're going to look
in the local execution context.
>> Will Sentance: Fantastic.
Do I find counter?
>> Eric: No counter there?
>> Will Sentance: Where do I look next?
Don't use any fancy terms.
>> Eric: We're gonna go to the backpack.
>> Will Sentance: We're gonna go to
the backpack, where we find counter is?
>> Eric: One.
>> Will Sentance: Wow,
we find counter is 1.
We increment it to?
>> Eric: 2.
>> Will Sentance: 2,
>> Will Sentance: Immediately, people,
you might be able to see this
has supercharged our functions.
Functions are just two things.
Well, as for
now let's say two blocks of code,
which when run, they get to walk
through the code, the thread and
a temporary memory bundled up just for
the function of that time.
This enables our functions to have
two types of place to store data,
one temporary for their single execution,
the single running and
one permanent persistent, that's there as
long as the code of the function is saved.
Add function's not just code anymore,
it saves code under the label new function
that was originally increment counters
code plus persistent data attached to it
that we get access to by making
reference in new function
borders increment counter to
something that's not in local memory.
So we jump out and
look in the backpack and
as long as when we birthed when we
created the now known as new function.
Function originating from encounter.
We had around it in local memory,
save counter is zero,
that gets pulled out on the back
of the function into new function.
And there it is attached,
there it is attached people.
So I'm going to.
[SOUND] I'll address this one more
time new function's definition,
its code,
its saved code now has a hidden link.
Hidden, well, that's why I got to tell
you a few few more important things about
this before we move on to thumbs.
How is this permanent data
here attached to the function?
Well firstly, we can't get to it directly.
I can't go new function in global,
newfunction.backpack.counter, this
is not possible.
I can't even go newfunction.
Official name for it dot counter as they
were getting into it, it is absolutely
they call it private to that increment
counter now known as new function.
Function call, we can only get into it
by running new function, not finding
something we reference in the local
memory and jumping out to the backpack.
The backpack kind of inserts itself
before we go down to looking in global.
Don't get me wrong the backpack
in global in the sense that it's
attached to a function
that saved in global.
But global really means I can access
the name for that data when I'm in global
execution context, I can't access this
data, it's hidden, it's protected.
Well, how is it protected?
Well, as soon as the function increment
counter was saved inside the running of
outer when outer was on our
call stack earlier inside that
execution context a thread
was running through.
As soon as increment counter was saved.
It immediately got a link
to the surrounding memory.
Immediately, to the whole
surrounding memory.
That link was stored on a property
square bracket square bracket,
two square brackets.
Scope square bracket linked
to this running memory.
It'll copy just a link to
where it was literally stored.
When I returned the function, out,
I pulled out on that link all the data
with me attached to the function.
Still got that scope property,
there it is.
How did the lid-
>> [INAUDIBLE]
>> Will Sentance: I mean, [LAUGH] the lid
has returned!
>> Class: [LAUGH]
>> Will Sentance: Charmed,
amazing, there it is.
I was about to start shaking it
again then I thought, well, that's.
Okay, meaning as I say,
whenever new function runs and
it doesn't find counter's local memory,
it goes through its definition looks into
its hidden scope property, in other words
into the backpack and finds counter.
Because counter was there when it was
born and when it got returned out,
the code of increment
counter from running outer.
We ran outer we returned that increment
counter from it being creating it inside
out and we returned it out into new
function and we run new function and
it doesn't find counter
the local memory and
looks to new functions backpack
stored on the scope property.
I want to do thumbs but
I want to probably tell you a few more
pieces about this backpack first.
Firstly, it's really optimized,
Java Script makes the link on the saving
of increment counter inside of outer
to the surrounding local memory,
everything in there, the link to the whole
collection, everything, there is
a link to where this all stored in memory,
but on returning out that function.
Normally when you finish
running a function,
what's the only thing we hold onto, Sam?
When I finish running a function,
return out three.
All the other stuff in the local memory,
do we hold onto it?
>> Sam: No.
>> Will Sentance: No, we automatically
garbage collect it.
Why is it called garbage?
It's called garbage because we can't
access any of that data by its name
anymore.
So there's no point it being there.
We automatically collect it.
It means it automatically
gets deleted by JavaScript.
>> Sam: So weak reference.
>> Will Sentance: Sure.
This is absolutely instead here,
we rely on when we
return out this function
JavaScript is going to hold on to all that
surrounding data in the backpack
of the function, but hold on.
What if I say maybe 10 different
things in this local memory.
I return I increment counter into
new function run new function.
I've got 10 things in this
local memory besides counter.
What's the only thing Alex,
inside of new function for
me was increment counter what's
the only thing I refer to Alex?
>> Alex: Counter.
>> Will Sentance: Counter.
So if I've got 10 other
things in this backpack,
can I get access to any of those?
No, I can't access anything that's back.
I can't go, newFunction.scope.counter,
I wouldn't want to.
I want it to be preserved and
protected for the running of the function.
Meaning, I know on the return sorry.
Better, JavaScript knows, on the returning
of incrementCounter to newFunction,
it already knows what that function
could ever end up needing or accessing.
And so it optimizes what gets
pulled out in the backpack
once we exit outer and delete
everything else in the local memory.
If it's not referred to, delete it.